---
title: osd_patchcount
order: 8
category:
  - houdini
---

## Description

`int osd_patchcount(<geometry>geometry)`

Returns the number of base level patches in the subdivision hull specified by
the geometry filename. This is different that the number of faces in the
subdivision hull. For example, in a tetrahedron, each triangle face will
generate three patches.

`int osd_patchcount(<geometry>geometry, int face_id)`

For a given face in the coarse mesh, this returns the number of patches which
are generated by that face. While a quadrilateral only generates 1 patch, all
other faces will generate multiple patches based on their vertex count. For
example, a triangle will generate 3 patches, a pentagon will generate 5
patches.

## Arguments

`<geometry>`

When running in the context of a node (such as a wrangle SOP), this argument
can be an integer representing the input number (starting at 0) to read the
geometry from.

Alternatively, the argument can be a string specifying a geometry file (for
example, a `.bgeo`) to read from. When running inside Houdini, this can be an
`op:/path/to/sop` reference.

## See also

- [osd_facecount](osd_facecount.html)
- [osd_firstpatch](osd_firstpatch.html)
- [osd_limitsurface](osd_limitsurface.html)

### count

[npoints](npoints.html)

[npointsgroup](npointsgroup.html)

[nprimitives](nprimitives.html)

[nprimitivesgroup](nprimitivesgroup.html)

[nvertices](nvertices.html)

[nverticesgroup](nverticesgroup.html)

[osd_facecount](osd_facecount.html)

[osd_patchcount](osd_patchcount.html)

[pcsize](pcsize.html)

[primvertexcount](primvertexcount.html)

### subd

[osd_facecount](osd_facecount.html)

[osd_firstpatch](osd_firstpatch.html)

[osd_limitsurface](osd_limitsurface.html)

[osd_limitsurfacevertex](osd_limitsurfacevertex.html)

[osd_lookupface](osd_lookupface.html)

[osd_lookuppatch](osd_lookuppatch.html)

[osd_patchcount](osd_patchcount.html)

[osd_patches](osd_patches.html)
